---
author: "Samy Fodil"
title: "What is Taubyte?"
date: "2022-12-15"
tags: ["taubyte"]
---

Are you a web 3 developer who has given up on the dream of building genuinely decentralized applications due to the absence of suitable cloud platforms? If so, you may be interested in learning more about a new cloud platform that may meet your needs. In that case, you are not the only one. Many developers have discovered that typical cloud platforms lack the flexibility necessary to meet the specific requirements of decentralized apps, making these platforms inappropriate for use in this context. On the other hand, there is another option. In this piece, we will present a decentralized cloud platform that is open-source and provides genuine decentralization as one of its benefits. We will discuss its most important characteristics and advantages, as well as the reasons why you should think about using it for your web3 applications.


# Very little of what makes a dApp is decentralized
The majority of the code and logic that runs decentralized applications is still executed off-chain, employing the time-honored hub-and-spoke architecture of Web 2.0. On the other hand, there is another option. In this piece, we will discuss a decentralized cloud platform that has been developed to meet the one-of-a-kind demands posed by web3 technologies and to make it possible to operate in a truly decentralized manner. We will discuss its most important characteristics and advantages, as well as the reasons why you should think about using it for your web3 applications.
But before we go into the specifics, let's pose the following questions to ourselves: When compared to more standard cloud platforms, how does the decentralized cloud platform perform better when it comes to the construction of truly decentralized applications? Why is it crucial for web3 developers who are unsatisfied with the current state of decentralization that this architecture enables faster development and more cost-effective hosting? How does its architecture enable faster development and more cost-effective hosting? Keep reading to find out more information.

# Cloud
The majority of traditional cloud platforms are constructed on a hub-and-spoke model, which means that they rely on centralized servers and data centers to execute applications and store data. However, more recently, distributed cloud computing has emerged as a viable alternative. This strategy suffers from a variety of problems, the most notable of which being potential security flaws and a lack of control over data and infrastructure.

In contrast, a decentralized cloud platform such as Taubyte is designed to accommodate the specific requirements of web3 technologies and enable real decentralization. This is possible because of the platform's lack of centralized control. Using a protocol-based architecture that offers programmable trust and just-in-time operations, it enables businesses to construct and run their very own cloud infrastructure in a manner that is both flexible and interoperable. This ability is provided to the businesses by the product.
This architecture enables faster development and more cost-effective hosting of decentralized applications, making it an attractive solution for web3 developers who are looking to overcome the limitations of traditional cloud platforms. Because of these benefits, this architecture has become increasingly popular in recent years. Taubyte is an effective and scalable solution for web3 applications because of its support for numerous clouds and its capability of running cloud services on the edge. This allows for enhanced speed and reduced latency, which are both key features of web3 apps.

# What is Serverless?
Serverless computing is a model of cloud computing in which a cloud provider dynamically manages the allocation of resources and the allocation of resources to run an application. This model of cloud computing is also known as serverless computing. Because of this, the developer of the application does not need to be concerned about the underlying infrastructure, which includes servers and storage, and instead can concentrate on writing and deploying their code.
Through the use of serverless computing, businesses are able to develop and run applications and services without having to worry about the management and maintenance of their underlying infrastructure. This may result in a number of benefits, including a decrease in costs, an increase in scalability and flexibility, and a reduction in the amount of time needed for deployment.
In addition, serverless computing can provide businesses with the opportunity to benefit from on-demand, pay-per-use pricing models, which can assist these businesses in better managing their IT spending budgets. This can be especially helpful for businesses that have workloads that are difficult to predict or that want to easily and quickly deploy new applications and services without having to make costly infrastructure investments.
Serverless computing is a powerful and flexible approach to cloud computing that is gaining popularity among businesses that are looking to improve the performance, scalability, and cost-effectiveness of their applications and services. In general, serverless computing is a term that refers to the absence of a dedicated server.

# Content addressing
The process of identifying and addressing digital content based on the distinct qualities of the content itself, as opposed to its physical location, is referred to as content addressing. In distributed systems, such as peer-to-peer networks, where it is essential to be able to access and share content without relying on a central server or authority, this method is frequently used. Peer-to-peer networks are one example of distributed systems.
The InterPlanetary File System (IPFS), which is a decentralized protocol for storing and sharing files, is largely credited with popularizing the practice of content addressing. A "hash" is a content-based identifier that is given to each file in IPFS. This identifier is derived from the file's content as well as the metadata associated with the file. This hash can be used to identify the file and gain access to it, irrespective of the location in which it is stored or the host of the file.
Because it eliminates the requirement for centralized servers and makes it possible for users to access files directly from the network, the use of content addressing in IPFS makes it possible to share files in a manner that is both effective and secure. As a result of the content being dispersed across the network and being accessible from a number of different locations, it not only makes it possible to transfer files more quickly but also improves the scalability of the system.
In general, content addressing is an effective method that can be used to manage and share digital content in distributed systems. It is also an essential component of the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) and other decentralized protocols.

# dFunctions
dFunctions are a novel method developed by Taubyte for the creation and management of decentralized functions. This method makes use of all three of the following: content addressing, webassembly, and the serverless model. Because of this technique, dFunctions can be accessible and invoked from any location on the network without the need for centralized servers or authority, which enables them to be completely decentralized. Because it enables dFunctions to be executed on the devices and infrastructure that are located closest to the end users, it also makes it possible for web3 apps to have improved speed and lower latency. In addition, the utilization of content addressing makes it possible for dFunctions to be managed and carried out in a manner that is more productive and economical. In general, dFunctions provides web3 developers who are interested in developing decentralized apps with a solution that is both scalable and cost-effective.




